engine/src/flutter/README.md, before:

Flutter Engine
==============
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/flutter/engine.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/flutter/engine)

Flutter is a new way to build high-performance, cross-platform mobile apps.
Flutter is optimized for today's, and tomorrow's, mobile devices. We are
focused on low-latency input and high frame rates on Android and iOS.

_Flutter is an early-stage open-source project._ We are still missing core
features like accessibility, text input, localization, and more. However,
you can build demos and examples today. We hope you try it out and send
us [feedback](mailto:flutter-dev@googlegroups.com).

 - For information about using Flutter to build apps, please see
   the [getting started guide](http://flutter.io/getting-started/).

 - For information about contributing to the Flutter framework, please see
   [the main Flutter repository](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

 - For information about contributing code to the engine itself, please see
   [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Community
---------

Join us in our [Gitter chat room](https://gitter.im/flutter/flutter) or join our mailing list,
[flutter-dev@googlegroups.com](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/flutter-dev).

Commit message:

say what the engine is (#3029)
* say what the engine is

closes https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues/289

* Update README.md

engine/src/flutter/README.md, after:

Flutter Engine
==============
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/flutter/engine.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/flutter/engine)

Flutter is a new way to build high-performance, cross-platform mobile apps.
Flutter is optimized for today's, and tomorrow's, mobile devices. We are
focused on low-latency input and high frame rates on Android and iOS.

The Flutter Engine is the runtime environment for hosting Flutter applications.
Most developers will interact with Flutter via the Flutter Framework and APIs,
which run inside the engine.

_Flutter is an early-stage open-source project._ We are still adding
features. However,
you can build demos and examples today. We hope you try it out and send
us [feedback](mailto:flutter-dev@googlegroups.com).

 - For information about using Flutter to build apps, please see
   the [getting started guide](https://flutter.io/getting-started/).

 - For information about contributing to the Flutter framework, please see
   [the main Flutter repository](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

 - For information about contributing code to the engine itself, please see
   [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Community
---------

Join us in our [Gitter chat room](https://gitter.im/flutter/flutter) or join our mailing list,
[flutter-dev@googlegroups.com](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/flutter-dev).
